---
title: "t(11;14)-positive..."
date: 2000-03-01
pdf_file_name: 2000-10-05___Bentz-et-al.__Gain-of-Chromosome-Arm-9p-in-Primary-Mediastinal-B-Cell-Lymphoma__Genes-Chromosomes-Cancer.pdf
pdf_file_type: article
www_link: http://europepmc.org/abstract/MED/10679918
category:
  - publications
tags:
  - article
---

### t(11;14)-positive mantle cell lymphomas exhibit complex karyotypes and share similarities with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
#### Bentz M, Plesch A, Bullinger L, Stilgenbauer S, Ott G, Müller-Hermelink HK, Baudis M, Barth TF, Möller P, Lichter P, Döhner H.

**Abstract** Until now, few data on additional chromosomal aberrations in t(11;14)-positive mantle cell lymphomas (MCLs) have been published. We analyzed 39 t(11;14)-positive MCLs by either comparative genomic hybridization (CGH; n = 8), fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with a set of DNA probes detecting the most frequent aberrations in B-cell neoplasms (n = 12), or both techniques (n = 19). The t(11;14) was present in all cases. In 37 of 39 cases, chromosomal imbalances were found. In 27 cases, complex karyotypes, i.e., &gt;/= 3 aberrations, were identified. The most frequent aberrations were losses of 13q14-21 or 13q32-34 (27 cases), 9p21 (16 cases), and 11q22-23 (12 cases) and gains of 3q26-29 (19 cases), 8q22-24 (11 cases), and 18q21-22 (9 cases). In 26% of cases (7 of 27) analyzed by CGH, a total of 10 high-level DNA amplifications were identified. Although in comparison with B-cell chronic lymphopcytic leukemia (B-CLL) MCL is characterized by a much higher complexity of chromosomal aberrations, there are striking similarities: 13q14 deletions were identified in more than 50% of both MCL and B-CLL cases. In contrast, in our CGH database containing 293 B-cell lymphomas, this aberration was found in only 11% of other nodal lymphomas. Even more strikingly, 11q deletions, which are present in 20%-30 % of MCL and B-CLL, were found very rarely in other nodal B-cell lymphomas (CGH: 1 of 208 cases; FISH: 1 of 69 cases). These data show that MCL is characterized by specific secondary aberrations and that there may be similarities in the pathogenesis of MCL and B-CLL. Genes Chromosomes Cancer 27:285-294, 2000.
